---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Software Engineer
company: Site Tour
level: Intermediate, Senior
summary: |
  Work with great engineers in an open technical culture. Design and build Scala/FP-centric solutions to tough and interesting technical problems in the programmatic media (ad-tech) space.

location: London, UK
remote: No
email: jobs@sitetour.co
admin: andrew@sitetour.co
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
---

<!-- break -->

## About Site Tour

Site Tour is programmatic exchange for out-of-home media (OOH). In four years of operation Site Tour has consistently led the market on what’s next within OOH and has achieved strong year-on-year growth. We’ve been backed by a number of influential investors in the UK, Australia, and the US, and have been featured in some of the most highly regarded media in the world including the Wall Street Journal and the Australian Financial Review. We’re a small but tight team that thrives on results and pushing out fantastic solutions.

We believe that programmatic trading is the future for out-of-home media and Site Tour is in the box seat to make it happen. A career at Site Tour offers a unique opportunity to shape the future of this industry in a fast growing organisation surrounded by exceptionally talented staff. If you think you have what it takes to join us for the ride then we’d love to hear from you.

Site Tour is a programmatic exchange for out-of-home media that operates in an interesting problem area. We’re selling and scheduling real-world objects and processes that throw up a variety of different challenges. As a Software Engineer at Site Tour, frequent challenges include:

- Finding optimal and near real-time solutions to complex probabilistic scheduling problems (using operational research and optimisation techniques)
- Efficiently structuring our systems to reliably serve media to thousands of digital panels in multiple geographically distributed markets in real-time, every few seconds
- Simulating the existing buyer versus seller strategic decision making to programmatically effect existing real-world trading models
- Using mapping technology to answer questions about a panel’s environment, such as; What’s it near? Is it on a path-to-purchase to somewhere the buyer cares about it?

Site Tour is a geographically distributed sell-side tool that supports multiple internal and third-party buying platforms. Our infrastructure lives on AWS and though we favour functional solutions, we typically use Akka and associated ideas to structure the modules within our systems. Our two big internal web-apps are entirely rich client applications built on TypeScript, AngularJS, and React.

## About You

1. A top performer: You’re a passionate, intelligent human who loves technology. You’re great at what you do and you have a strong interest in all aspects of software engineering and delivery disciplines.
2. An analytical thinker: We need someone that thinks strategically and makes good root-cause decisions.
3. Innovative: We’re building products in an entirely green field market and you’ll be comfortable using challenging and pro-risk approaches.
4. Engaged: You are engaged with the software community and are interested in giving something back. You care about your work.
About Site Tour


## Key Skills and Requirements

- Solid software development experience with strong Scala and FP skills.
- BA/BSc degree in a technical field or equivalent practical experience.
- Experience in designing robust software applications.
- Comfortable with applying computer science concepts to engineer practical working solutions.
