---
layout: job
expire: 2016-12-01
title: Scala Developer
company: |
  BoomTown
location: Charleston,SC or Atlanta,GA
level: Intermediate, Senior
remote: Yes
summary: |
  As a Software Engineer on the Foundation Team, you will provide the web services, messaging systems, data stores, and other server-side systems our product teams need to get their job done quickly and easily.You’ll use functional Scala to implement high performance web services backed by Redis, DynamoDB, SQL Server, etc. You’ll also be a key player in designing and refining BoomTown’s server side APIs.
admin: sarah@boomtownroi.com
email: sarah@boomtownroi.com
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
citizenship: |
  US Citizens or Green Card Only 
---

<!-- break -->

### What we do

As a Software Engineer on the Foundation Team, you will provide the web services, messaging systems, data stores, and other server-side systems our product teams need to get their job done quickly and easily.

You will be charged with continuously enhancing and reinventing BoomTown’s server side platform. You’ll use functional Scala to implement high performance web services backed by Redis, DynamoDB, SQL Server, etc. You’ll also be a key player in designing and refining BoomTown’s server side APIs.

WE'D LOVE TO SPEAK TO YOU IF:

- You’ve seen the advantage of functional and functional/reactive programming.
- You have experience using Scala, Clojure, F#, Haskell, Ocaml, Erlang, or other functional languages.
- You’re familiar with Slick, Spray, and Akka.
- You’re comfortable working on multiple operating systems and platforms.
- You’re comfortable interfacing with and migrating object oriented code bases in C# or similar.
- You know how to debug performance issues and intimately understand CPU/Memory/Network tradeoffs.
- People bring you their trickiest debugging problems for help.
- You enjoy training and educating your fellow developers.

WE’D BE REALLY IMPRESSED IF:

- You’ve deployed Scala code to production.
- You’ve worked with a distributed compute platform like Apache Spark, Hive, or similar.
- You have production code running in Docker containers.
- You’ve run production code using platform-as-a-service offerings like AWS Lambda, Kinesis, or similar.

### What is BoomTown, you ask?

BoomTown was ranked on the Inc 500 Fastest Growing Companies list in 2011, 2012 and 2013. BoomTown is a fast growing web-based software company specializing in an end-to-end web marketing solution for real estate. Our flagship product is used by top-producing real estate brokers and teams across the country. BoomTown enjoys success by combining nimble management, a top-notch technical team, and unequaled customer service. We are extremely passionate about our platform, as well as our relationships among our team and with our partner clients.

### Life at BoomTown

Our philosophy can be summed up fairly succinctly - we create powerful, yet simple software to drive our clients’ business outcomes.  We’re truly passionate about our clients; and we’re focused on designing innovative solutions for their complex needs that make a difference in their lives.  Simply put, we work hard to create inspired solutions that people love to use.

### BoomTown offers you:

- Growth potential and ability to lead change
- Company leadership that believes in flexibility, freedom, and innovation
- Challenging, motivating, fun and dog-friendly work environment
- Company culture that is guided by our core values that thrives on passion and innovation
- Agile product management methodologies with minimal process overhead
