---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Senior/Lead Software Engineer (Scala/Java)
company: ITV
location: Leeds, UK
level: Senior
remote: no
summary: |
  Want to Lead the Modernisation Change at ITV?
admin: jamie.north@itv.com
email: jamie.north@itv.com
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
---

<!-- break -->

We have an exciting opportunity for a Senior Software Engineer to play a Leading role in our Rights and Commercial product development team, responsible for creating and maintaining business critical systems, with hundreds of internal business users and external business partners. The data that flows through these systems is ubiquitous across the organisation and we’re looking at ways to expose this data using good industry patterns and practices so that it’s easier to consume.

A key part of the Product Team, you’ll work closely with business customers to improve the architecture of our systems, while delivering on incremental use cases that give direct business benefit, along with mentoring team members and driving current development principles such as TDD, BDD and Continuous Integration.

You should have good experience with pair programming, including with people from different disciplines such as Developers-in-Test and Platform Engineers. You will need to work well with technical and non-technical team members to deliver the right solutions as a team.

We promote a DevOps culture so you will need to look beyond pure programming and get involved with the deployment and operation of our systems.

You'll need to be a great communicator and confident in both backend and front end engineering and capable of providing robust test automation to ensure the highest possible level of quality for our products. You have used your skills in a business environment developing real-world software.

You will have expertise in several modern programming languages, tools and techniques with track record of maintaining that expertise. You love learning and strive to better yourself.

Our main technology stack includes the following. Don’t worry if you’re not familiar with all of these - we will give you time and support in getting up to speed, and access to experts when you get stuck.

- Java and Scala
- Angular.js & DropWizard
- Git and GitHub
- Oracle and other SQL based relational databases
- Akka and Scalaz (see one of our engineers give an introduction to some of the aspects of Scalaz we use in his talk at Scala eXchange)
- Vagrant, Jenkins and Puppet
- RabbitMQ for messaging and Elasticsearch
- AWS and some OpenStack

