---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Software Engineer - Scala
company: Cake Solutions
location: Manchester, UK
level: Junior, Intermediate, and Senior
remote: Possible
summary: |
  Scala engineers looking for lively and challenging environment with very interesting problems to solve.
admin: martind@cakesolutions.net
email: martind@cakesolutions.net
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
---

<!-- break -->

You can expect a lively and challenging environment with very interesting problems to solve. We are happy to train and mentor the right people; the important thing is to have a bright mind and the motivation to question, explore and learn.

## Skills & Requirements

As a Software Engineer at Cake Solutions, you should have:

- a good understanding of Java and the JVM
- an understanding of strongly-typed, functional programming concepts in one of the popular functional languages (e.g. Scala, Haskell, Erlang, OCaml).
- knowledge of modern web development including creating scalable and reactive web applications with modern frameworks such as ScalaJS, AngularJS, ReactJS etc.
- knowledge in applying object-oriented and functional programming styles to real-world software engineering problems.
- experience in a commercial or active Open Source project
- experience with at least one database system and be aware of the wider database landscape (relational, document, key/value, graph, ...).
- an understanding of modern software development practices.
- demonstrable experience in testing, continuous integration and producing maintainable code.
- an understanding of asynchronous and non-blocking principles including knowledge and/or experience in writing multi-threaded software.
- awareness of the Typesafe Reactive Platform: Scala, Akka, and Play
- a desire to learn new technologies and be pushed technically to improve your understanding and build your career

Bonus points for completing or undergoing the “Functional Programming Principles in Scala” on Coursera

## About Cake Solutions Ltd

Using the very latest technologies, Cake Solutions helps organisations take innovative and disruptive ideas and develop them into reactive software solutions. Cake’s success is underpinned by our unique One Team® approach that allows for standalone projects or collaboration with the client’s technology teams. Cake provides mentors to guide the entire organisation through modern software engineering, continually transferring skills and knowledge to client teams in the process. This enables Cake to deliver not just software but to transform the way organisations think about and execute software delivery.

As an early adopter of change in the IT industry, Cake embraces the use of the latest bleeding edge programming languages and tools to implement system components including big data, machine learning and the Internet of Things. Cake delivers the appropriate technical solution to a business problem and can transform the way organisations think about and deliver production-ready high quality systems safely and predictably.

Our experienced, cross-functional agile teams enable the delivery of entire solutions not just lines of code. We appreciate the importance of continuous integration, continuous delivery, DevOps and rigorous testing whilst applying the appropriate solutions to ensure these processes are met. We rely on open source software in our day-to-day development; it gives us access to very high quality code, allows us to make improvements if we need to, and provides access to excellent source of inspiration and talent.   We give back to the open source community by contributing to the open source projects we use, and by publishing our own open source projects. The team have contributed to various Typesafe Activator templates and have a very active blog which allows us to share our knowledge with the community.

The Cake team members are published authors, prolific bloggers and experienced speakers. They have extensive experience in designing, building and implementing scalable Reactive Applications and are encouraged to continually research, innovate and publish thought leading insights.

