---
layout: job
expire: 2017-08-04
title: Backend Software Engineer (Scala)
company: |
  Spotcap
location: Berlin, Germany
level: Intermediate
remote: No
summary: |
  We are looking for a Backend Software Engineer (Scala) with a strong commitment to functional programming principles to jour our team in Berlin. Our engineering team operates a lean development process to deliver our world-class products and services. Modern languages and tools paired with continuous deployment and cloud-based infrastructure helps us master the global-technology platform challenges. 
admin: wayne.smart@spotcap.com
application_url: http://smrtr.io/6aNe-g
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.


---

<!-- break -->

Spotcap (www.spotcap.com) is a leading global FinTech company operating in the trillion dollar online lending space. We are driven by the mission to empower SMEs with tailored finance, allowing them to focus on what really matters – their business. We are an international team of finance, engineering and business professionals from more than 25 countries. Spotcap operates in five countries, is headquartered in Berlin (Germany) with a local presence in Spain, The UK, The Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand. And we are growing rapidly!

Our customers and their needs are at the core of our business and the key driver for all business decisions. But our most important asset are the masterminds behind Spotcap - our people. At Spotcap we value ownership, creativity, lean processes and curiosity. We are on a fun mission and always look for like-minded people who want to join us in disrupting the finance industry.

Our engineering team operates a lean development process to deliver our world-class products and services. Modern languages and tools paired with continuous deployment and cloud-based infrastructure helps us master the global-technology platform challenges.

In this role you will be:
- Responsible for designing and implementing modern backend and middleware solutions to help support Spotcap's global portfolio of products and services.
- Using your knowledge of the benefits of functional programming, encapsulation, choosing the right data-structures, immutability, asynchronous structures, and code organisation to deliver high quality, robust, and maintainable code.
- Actively participating in planning, creating, and running the products and services.
- Doing code-reviews, automated testing and taking features to production.
- Integrate with third party APIs and write specifications for APIs consumed by our partners.

Our ideal candidate has:
- Two plus years of experience in developing and running HTTP API based backends.
- Proficiency in Scala, knows its ecosystem and has experience running products/services on the JVM.
- Worked in feature teams that worked on all aspects of a software product.
- Experience in writing concurrent, parallel and scalable products.
- Experience in working with Amazon Web Services products.
- Knows the benefits of purely functional code, immutability, encapsulation, choosing the right data-structures, asynchronous structures, code organization and testability.
- Followed new developments in the ever changing landscape of backend technologies.
- A sense of purpose and clarity for the entire software development and deployment process.
- An innate curiosity and drive to get things done.
- Fluency in English.

Working at Spotcap means you will benefit from the following:
- Be part of a dynamic, driven and very international team across six countries, with a fantastic workplace in the heart of Berlin.
- A challenging full-time role at the forefront of the booming FinTech industry with Spotcap having already been awarded numerous accolades in that space.
- A start-up atmosphere in an established company environment with flat hierarchies where you’ll be expected and encouraged to contribute your ideas.
- Strong career progression and opportunity to grow with the business.
- A strong team culture with regular social events, tech talks, training sessions and team meetings.