---
layout: job
expire: 2017-10-05
title: Software Developer, Scala/Android
company: |
  Wire
location: Berlin, Germany
level: Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  We are looking for a Scala developer with exposure to Android. The ideal candidate will be a highly-motivated and proactive individual that combines a desire to learn with strong collaboration and excellent communication skills. In Wire’s Android app Java is used for the UI and presentation layer, whereas the lower levels of the app are in Scala. Desired candidates will have knowledge and experience of Android and Scala development, or be able to learn those skills under our guidance.
admin: arianna@meritocracy.is
application_url: https://meritocracy.is/en/wire/software-developer-scalaandroid-18764?utm_source=underscore.io&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=wire_developer_scala
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.


---

<!-- break -->

We are looking for a Scala developer with exposure to Android. The ideal candidate will be a highly-motivated and proactive individual that combines a desire to learn with strong collaboration and excellent communication skills. In Wire’s Android app Java is used for the UI and presentation layer, whereas the lower levels of the app are in Scala. Desired candidates will have knowledge and experience of Android and Scala development, or be able to learn those skills under our guidance.

# About us

Wire is a European start-up building a modern, secure and open source privacy-focused communications experience. We are a Swiss company with a development center in Berlin, Germany. Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds, united by shared passion for communication, design and technology.


# Benefits


## When you join

Work with experts, multicultural team from 20 nationalities, competitive salary, relocation support, career growth opportunities, beautiful office with a rooftop terrace in the heart of Berlin.

## Day-to-day
Functional programming languages, hardware of your choice, adjustable standing desks, high quality chairs, regular tech talks, developer meetups in the office, bike storage, table tennis, foosball, yoga, breakfasts and lunches.

## Responsibilities

* Implement new features in the app
* Help maintain and improve the code base
* Design new features and apply testing methodologies
* Coach junior members of the team
* Collaborate with other teams to identify and resolve issues

## Requirements

* 2+ years experience with Scala development
* Experience with Android development (or willingness to learn)
* Understand object-oriented programming
* Knowledge of design patterns
* Passion for clean code and elegant solutions
* Experience with automated testing
* Experience with version control systems (preferably Git)
* Independent software projects and attention to detail
* Excellent problem solving, critical thinking, and communication skills
* Education
* BS in Computer Science or equivalent, MS preferred
