---
layout: job
expire: 2017-08-25
title: Senior Software Engineer
company: |
  Curalate
location: New York, NY
level: Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  Come build the future of visual commerce! We're using Scala to build software that helps almost 1,000 of the world's most iconic brands to connect with millions of customers every day.
admin: bradonjones@curalate.com
application_url: https://www.themuse.com/jobs/curalate/senior-software-engineer-new-york-8fde03
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.


---

<!-- break -->

Curalate is looking for talented full-stack, frontend, and backend senior developers to join our team. Our engineering team is deep in the trenches -- tackling some of the gnarliest problems out there at the intersection of computer vision and big data -- and we're looking for a few good coders to join us.

Check out our Engineering Blog to get a window into what we are building at Curalate and what we're excited about!

**Responsibilities**:

You'll be expected to dive into our stack and start shipping code on day one. We're not hiring code monkeys; you'll be given substantial feature ownership, and we'll expect you to contribute product ideas as well as code.

We're not language zealots; we believe in using the right tool for the job, and are comfortable with a polyglot codebase. Production experience with these technologies is not required - we’re looking for people that are eager and fast learners. Some of the technologies we use:

 - Languages: Scala, Javascript
 - Infrastructure: AWS, Asgard, Jenkins
 - Datastores: Cassandra, MySQL (RDS), DynamoDB, Redis, Redshift, S3
 - Data Processing: Storm, Lambda, Kinesis, Kafka, SQS, Spark
 - Microservices: Finatra/Finagle, Scalatra
 - Frontend: AngularJS, Less, Gulp, Bower
 - Image Processing: OpenCV, Caffe
 - Search: Elasticsearch, Cloudsearch

**About You**:

Although experience with our existing technology stack is great, we're much more interested in hiring developers with exceptional problem solving skills, creative out-of-the-box thinking, and comfort with quickly learning, evaluating, and deploying new technologies. While we're not looking for any specific industry experience you should have a CS degree and/or at least five years of experience and come prepared to join a fast-moving, high-performing team.

**About Us**:

Curalate is a leading marketing technology company that enables brands to sell online more effectively. The Curalate Discovery-Driven Commerce Platform is currently in use by over 800 of the world’s most loved brands including Urban Outfitters, Neiman Marcus, Sephora and J.Crew, and touches hundreds of millions of consumers, monthly. With Curalate, brands grow engagement and revenue, at scale, utilizing images and videos from a wide variety of sources, including User Generated Content (UGC). Curalate was launched in 2012, is an official marketing partner of Pinterest, Facebook, and Instagram and has offices in Philadelphia, New York City, Seattle and London.
