---
layout: job
expire: 2018-03-02
title: Core Scala Developer
company: |
  ITV
location: London
level: Intermediate
remote: No
summary: |
  s. 


admin: nabila.younsi@itv.com
application_url: https://itv.taleo.net/careersection/jobdetail.ftl?job=170001XB&lang=en
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.


---

<!-- break -->

ITV are looking for a Scala Engineer to work within a cross functional team to deliver software that meets ITV Online’s business and operational requirements. ITV Online’s Scala practices lean heavily towards pure typed functional programming, and we make heavy use of libraries that support that endeavour such as Cats / Scalaz, Http4s, Circe and Doobie. Our Scala engineers are also encouraged to contribute to open source project

Our teams are cross-functional and agile, we strive to follow Continuous Delivery practices, and our teams contain embedded Platform Engineers to support this goal. We promote a DevOps culture and expect our developers to get involved with the testing and operation of our services and systems.

To be successful with your application you will need to demonstrate experience building and operationally supporting microservices in the cloud. Experience with serverless backend systems is also desirable. You must also be enthusiastic about typed functional programming, and keen to improve your abilities while supporting your colleagues.
To be considered for this opportunity, you will need to demonstrate the following skills:
●	Scala development skills and knowledge of Scala ecosystem
●	Good knowledge of at least one other programming language
●	Knowledge of testing techniques and strategies
●	Web services architectures, particularly REST and caching
●	Experience with operational concerns
●	Messaging system experience is also desirable
●	High level knowledge of relational and NoSQL data stores
●	Unix command line and basic systems administration
●	Diagnosis of functional and performance problems
●	Good team communication skills

What we can offer

We offer a competitive salary and 5 weeks’ holiday on top of public holidays, plus the option to buy more. Other benefits include annual bonus plan, life assurance cover, and interest-free season-ticket loans, an opportunity to buy ITV shares, and the chance to join pension, health insurance, childcare vouchers and cycle to work schemes.
We continually invest in our staff, and we offer a range of training and development including in-house and external courses, and attendance at conferences and events.

If you have talent, a real passion for creativity and want to join our ITV family, we have plenty to offer you. Everyone’s unique background and life experiences add huge value to our ITV culture.


ITV strongly encourages applications for this role from candidates with a disability and as a Disability Confident employer we are committed to offer an interview to disabled candidates who meet the minimum criteria for the role.

"ITV, where creativity, diversity and collaboration put us right at the heart of popular culture."

For more information check out….. www.itvjobs.com/why-join-us/diversity-and-inclusion/