---
layout: job
expire: 2018-06-25
title: Distributed Systems Engineer
company: |
  Fauna Inc.
location: San Francisco
level: Senior
remote: Yes
summary: |
  Come join the engineering team at Fauna, where you’ll be working directly on our core product, FaunaDB. You'll help expand FaunaDB's feature surface area, ease of use, performance, and enterprise-readiness while keeping its promises of ACID-compliance and cloud-native fault tolerance.


admin: recruiting@fauna.com
application_url: https://boards.greenhouse.io/faunadb/jobs/460012
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.


---

<!-- break -->

Come join the engineering team at Fauna, where you’ll be working directly on our core product, FaunaDB. You'll help expand FaunaDB's feature surface area, ease of use, performance, and enterprise-readiness while keeping its promises of ACID-compliance and cloud-native fault tolerance.

The creation of an enterprise distributed database requires disciplined engineering. Our software is four years in the making and we’ve taken the time to build things right. You’ll be working with a team of engineers who have been tech leads for service teams, built other distributed systems, contributed to popular open source, and worked at engineering leaders like Amazon, Twitter, and Oracle.

You’ll be well-versed in the following:

Scala (or another functional programming language)
Asynchronous programming
Fault-tolerant network services
Performance analysis with Linux or the JVM
Familiarity with on-disk storage engines (LSM trees, B+ trees, etc.) is a plus
Familiarity with distributed consensus protocols (RAFT, Paxos, Viewstamped Replication) is a plus
Working on a distributed team
Required: A degree in computer science or a related field, or equivalent work experience.

Fauna is a well-funded Series A startup building the first mission critical NoSQL database. We're backed by Point 72 Ventures, GV (formerly Google Ventures), CRV, Data Collective, Quest Venture Partners, and many more leading Silicon Valley firms. We are remote-first (but not remote-only), and based in San Francisco and Boston.

Benefits include fully paid medical, vision, and dental insurance, as well as company-sponsored life insurance. 

Fauna is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. Our company is committed to fair hiring practices, and building a diverse environment for our employees. You will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age, or veteran status.