---
layout: job
expire: 2019-04-06
title: Scala Developer
company: |
  Ace & Tate
location: Amsterdam
level: Junior, Intermediate
remote: No
contract: Permanent employment
summary: |
  Within Ace & Tate, we’re working on building the platform which will facilitate the future growth of our business by phasing out some of our legacy systems and rebuilding them in a modern microservice-architecture on basis of Lagom. Therefore, we are looking for a Scala Developer to join our growing team. You will be working in a small team and together you will work on the backbone of our company, which is our platform. We are a fast growing company with a strong start-up mentality. 
admin: sarah.nutz@aceandtate.com
email: sarah.nutz@aceandtate.com
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
junior: true
citizenship: |
  EU Citizen required, but we will support visa applications
---

<!-- break -->

Within Ace & Tate, we’re currently working on building the platform which will facilitate the future growth of our business.

Within this process, we’re phasing out some of our legacy systems and rebuilding them in a modern microservice-architecture on basis of Lagom.

For this journey we, however, need you to further help us with the development, extension and support of this new platform. Therefore, we are looking for a Scala Developer to join our growing team. You will be working in a small, international team and together you will work on the backbone of our company, which is our platform. We are a fast growing company with a strong start-up mentality. You will be encouraged to bring ideas forward that will have a direct impact on our business and our customers. 

This position is full-time and immediately available at our headquarter in Amsterdam. 

In your role as developer you will...

-Use your knowledge on Scala and modular systems to help us in constructing and evolving our systems;
-Take an important place in the future capabilities of the business, by closely working together with key stakeholders;
-Use “state of the art technology” (and really in this case ;-)) using Lagom, Kubernetes and Amazon driven cloud technology;
-Further improve our way of working with experience you have in your agile way of working and strong focus on automation;
-Contribute to architectural direction and changes;
-Help us factor (parts) out, but also support our current production systems running (for instance) on Solidus. 


You...

-Are a strong team player and love to help others out;
-Are fluent in English (Dutch is a plus);
-Are interested in Domain Driven Design, Event Sourcing and Reactive Architectures;
-Understand and can relate to our business and are able to empathise with our (online) customers;
-Are a fast learner, seeking constant self-improvement;
-Love experimenting with cutting edge technologies and see how these would fit into our technology stack;
-Have a sense of pragmatism, not afraid to code your way out of a challenge.


Your skills...

-Prove-able experience with Scala (1 to 2 years), along with other common libraries such as Akka and Akka Streams;
-A knack for writing clean, readable Scala code;
-Able to implement automated testing platforms, unit and integration tests (Scala tests, CircleCI/Travis, continuous deployment);
-Experience with an Agile / scrum environment.


We offer you...

-The chance to be part of an ambitious international team;
-The opportunity to push the boundaries for our international footprint;
-Personal development and lots of variety in your work;
-A broad scope of responsibilities;
-Visa sponsorship for highly skilled migrants (IND);
-Flexible work hours and working from home;
-A creative office space in Amsterdam with our own bar and beer tap;
-Frequent updates to your eyewear collection!