---
admin: tim.pigden@optrak.com
location: Ware, UK
email: tom.pigden@optrak.com
citizenship: UK work permit, but we can probably get Visa
company: Optrak
remote: Partial
level: Intermediate
expire: '2020-11-12'
instructions: Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position
  you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
layout: job
title: Scala Developer
summary: 'Optrak is looking for a Scala developer with at least 2 years of professional
  Scala development, to work on the forthcoming cloud-based Optrak5 logistics optimisation
  software and related projects. The role is primarily concerned with data management
  and integration with systems such as Kafka. We use the ZIO framework and knowledge
  of this or another effects library such as cats as well as streaming would all be
  advantageous. '
contract: Permanent employment

---

<!-- break -->

## Scala Developer – Backend Development

Optrak is looking for a Scala developer with at least 2 years of professional Scala development, to work on the forthcoming cloud-based Optrak5 logistics optimisation software and related projects. The role is primarily concerned with data management and integration with systems such as Kafka. We use the ZIO framework and knowledge of this or another effects library such as cats as well as streaming would all be advantageous.

Optrak has a small development team and the role would confer considerable opportunity to participate directly in systems design as well as implementation.

Optrak is based in Ware, Hertfordshire (just north of London). Although the team is currently working from home, UK government grant funding means that you would need to be eligible to work and domiciled in the UK.

In addition to your Scala skills, the knowledge of following are all relevant to the role, though not essential:
- Logistics, freight and the computer systems (e.g. ERPs) used to support them.
- Operational Research techniques, including heuristic and meta-heuristic design, genetic algorithms, graph theory & etc.
- Geographic Information Systems, map databases and route-planning algorithms.
- OpenCL or Cuda
- Rust language
- DevOps and CI
- SysOps, Cloud deployment, Docker

Other team members work with Typescript and Vue (frontend) and Rust (roadmap database and network calculations) and opportunities to work with them in those languages would exist if that was of interest.

### Role
The role offers:
- Flexible working hours and working from home.
- Opportunity to progress and take on additional responsibilities in the company.

###  Company
Optrak is an award-winning vehicle route optimisation specialist, providing software and consultancy services to private, public and NGO organisations looking. Optrak works with organisations across multiple vertical sectors providing industry-targeted solutions to match real world business requirements, such as complex loading and delivery constraints.

With a longstanding experience in route optimisation, Optrak’s specialisation as a development firm comes from incorporating the latest optimisation techniques into its work and its collaboration with industry and academia to decarbonise the UK road freight industry.