---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Server-Side Scala Developers
company: Tozny
location: Portland, OR, USA
level: Junior, Intermediate, Senior
summary: |
  Tozny is a security startup in Portland, OR looking for talented and enthusiastic Scala engineers to join our team. We're building platforms to make password-less authentication easy to use and enable sharing of personal data without compromising users' privacy.
admin: jamesjb@tozny.com
email: jobs@tozny.com
junior: true
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
---

<!-- break -->

<p><strong>Mission: </strong>Here at Tozny, we're passionate about the security and privacy of everyday users. We build strong security products that are delightfully easy to use. We are <a href="http://tozny.com/nstic/">part of the team</a> funded by the US Government to advance privacy standards by building innovative security products. Join us, and help solve some of the biggest problems in computer security and online privacy. We're a spinoff of <a href="http://galois.com">Galois</a>, the security research firm.</p>

<p><strong>Portland, Oregon</strong>: We're located in the heart of one of the best cities in America. It has excellent <a href="http://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurants-g52024-Portland_Oregon.html">restaurants</a> with reasonable prices, tons of brew pubs, it's artistic, <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powell%27s_Books">literate</a>, and bike friendly. Hike nearby in the Columbia River Gorge, ski on Mt. Hood, or take in the vistas and <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oregon_wine">Pinot Noirs</a> in our world-renowned wine country.</p>

<h2>Server-Side Scala Developer</h2>
<p>Tozny is looking to add junior and senior Scala developers to our team. These developers will primarily be responsible for back-end web site development for a security startup.</p>

<strong>Required Experience</strong>
<ul>
<li>Experience delivering production software in Scala</li>
<li>Agile project development</li>
<li>Professional communication skills</li>
<li>Familiarity developing REST APIs in Scala with frameworks such as Play, Akka, Spray, or Dropwizard</li>
<li>Web API design and development</li>
<li>Talent and enthusiasm</li>
</ul>
<strong>Required Experience for Senior Candidates</strong>
<ul>
<li>Amazon Web Services</li>
<li>Leadership position on an Agile development team</li>
</ul>

<strong>Desired Experience</strong>
<ul>
<li>Mobile development (Android, iOS)</li>
<li>Front-end web development (HTML5, Javascript, React, Gulp, Babel, Flow)</li>
<li>Security risk analysis or cryptography</li>
<li>Privacy standards like FIPPs or CIPP</li>
</ul>

<p>To apply, please send a cover letter and resume to jobs@tozny.com.</p>
