---
layout: job
title: Senior Scala Developer
company: Lunatech
level: Intermediate, Senior
summary: |
  We are looking for experienced Scala developers to join our team to work with large customers implementing solutions in Scala/Akka and Play Framework.
location: Rotterdam, NL
remote: No
email: employment@lunatech.com
admin: vijay.kiran@lunatech.com 
instructions: |
  Email a CV and cover letter. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
---

<!-- break -->

## Who are we

Lunatech is a challenging organisation with self-managing developers. In small teams we work on projects for our customers, both from customer location and from our own office in Rotterdam. We don’t have account managers or project managers; our senior developers are responsible for successful delivery of their projects to our customers.

We build custom software systems for our clients, and our focus is on system integration, backend systems and custom dashboards. We’re not tied to specific technologies, but we look for what suits each project. We mostly program in Scala with Akka and Play framework and we often use Elastic Search, MongoDB, Postgres. Our source code is on GitHub.

## Who are we looking for

We’re looking for passionate developers who are always looking for the best in themselves and the best for our customers. Because we don’t have managers to draw charts or go wild in Excel, we expect that you pick up responsibility to lead projects to successful completion.

We’re looking for someone with a strong Java or Scala background but also someone who’s not afraid of picking up the occasional frontend task.

You can lead a team of other developers and maintain a relationship with the customer. You plan ahead and signal problems in a timely manner. You’re a binding factor in a team of opinionated developers and you can lead the team into the right direction architecturally.

We continually renew and extend our knowledge and share it with each other. Senior developers like you take up a mentoring role in this for junior developers.

## What do we offer

We offer an interesting work environment with many opportunities and responsibilities to pick up if you want. You’ll join a group of about twenty friendly developers with very little overhead.

We offer a competitive salary, expenses reimbursement and we have a transparent bonus arrangement.

We believe that you’re the best person to determine the tools you want to work with, so we won’t enforce some software or hardware upon you.

We regularly work from our customers’ offices because we believe that it is the best way to discover their real needs, but each of us also works from our Rotterdam office at least one day a week to give us plenty of opportunity to share knowledge and have fun together.

## Contact

Interested? For questions or applications contact us at employment@lunatech.com, or find one of us on Twitter: @eamelink or @vijaykiran.
