---
layout: job
title: Java/Scala Software Engineer
company: Workday
level: Junior, Intermediate, Senior
summary: |
  What if you can own the platform that powers business-critical transactions for Workday’s global customers? We want passionate developers who love technology, upward mobility and want to make an impact.
location: Dublin, Ireland
remote: Partial
junior: yes
email: robert.odonoghue@workday.com 
admin: robert.odonoghue@workday.com 
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
---

<!-- break -->

Software Engineer---Own the platform

What if you can own the platform that powers business-critical transactions for Workday’s global customers? We want passionate developers who love technology, upward mobility and want to make an impact. Our Technology Services organization is growing fast and we are looking for Software Engineers to join our team.

What a Software Engineer for our Technology Services team does at Workday:

- Architecture, designing, development and ownership of critical platform services. These modules are the building blocks that help make our software great.
- Innovation and solving problems are always on our mind; our engineers are constantly evolving our systems and are motivated to rapidly deliver features to production.
- Collaboration is the key to success. Our small teams allow our Engineers to come up with quick and exciting solutions.

Can you answer YES to some of these questions?

- Is Java your core development language? 
- Have you worked with any of the following: Scala, Akka, Spray, Spark, NoSQL data stores (for example, Riak, Cassandra, or MongoDB), XML processing or Web Services (SOAP / REST)?
- Have you worked on large-scale, distributed, and highly concurrent systems?
- Do you have knowledge of methodologies, technologies and architectures employed by consumer internet applications?

Apply and see if you have what it takes to be part of the revolution of cloud based, user-friendly enterprise software systems of tomorrow!

Here are a few more details about the role:

- Develop the platform that drives core business transactions for some of the worlds biggest companies
- Work on complex, server-side Java and Scala components
- Help the team move to best practices in DevOps and Continuous Deployment
- Build critical systems at scale
- Work effectively in an Agile / Scrum methodology to deliver business value quickly and consistently 
