---
layout: job
title: Scala Software Engineer
company: |
  Banno - JHA 
location: Cedar Falls, Iowa, USA
level: Intermediate, Senior
remote: Yes
summary: |
  As a Scala Engineer for the Banno Platform at Jack Henry, you'll get the chance to make a real, positive impact on people's lives. You will create highly scalable APIs to normalize access to multiple banking systems for use in our mobile banking clients. Scala engineers learn and push the boundaries of functional programming while developing and supporting production systems. Emphasizing DevOps and observability, you'll work on a team deploying and monitoring their own services.
admin: zach.mccoy@banno.com
application_url: http://careers.jackhenry.com/jobs/6103265-scala-software-engineer
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
citizenship: |
  US Citizens only
---

<!-- break -->

As a Scala Engineer for the Banno Platform at Jack Henry, you'll get the chance to make a real, positive impact on people's lives. Our mission is to give people the best possible experience they can have with their finances. We're doing this by reimagining the online banking ecosystem and building products that empower and delight.  You will create highly scalable APIs to normalize access to multiple banking systems for use in our mobile banking clients. Scala engineers learn and push the boundaries of functional programming while developing and supporting production systems. Emphasizing DevOps and observability, you'll work on a team deploying and monitoring their own services.  This position is going to be filled as a remote hire. 

#About the Banno platform

We are committed to creativity, thoughtfulness, culture, and openness—the perfect place to make phenomenal products that have a big impact. Our work environment echoes a modern tech startup but we have the security and benefits of a large, publicly traded company. With an engineering team of less than 100, we place high value on continued education and also contribute, and use, open source projects.

Our team is distributed and that means you can live and work wherever you want–as long as your work hours match US business hours. You'll get the chance to choose your own tools, work with bleeding edge infrastructure technologies across the stack and contribute to products that are used by thousands of people. Occasional travel may be required for professional development conferences or company meetings.

#Minimum Qualifications

* Must have a minimum of 3 years of programming experience.
* Must have education or work experience with a functional programming language such as Scala, Haskell, Clojure or Scheme.

#Preferred Skills

* Bachelor's degree is preferred.
* Experience with Scala in a production environment is preferred.
* Experience with the Akka, Cats or Spray libraries is preferred.

#Essential Skills

* Completes product technical design and prototyping, software development, bug verification and resolution. 
* Performs system analysis and programming activities which may require research.
* Provides technical/engineering support for new and existing applications from code delivery until the retirement of the application. 
* Provides reasonable task and project effort estimates.
* Ensures timely, effective, and quality delivery of software into production.
* Develops and tests applications based on business requirements and industry best practices.
* Creates required technical documentation.
* Adheres to documented departmental and corporate standards.
* Periodic troubleshooting during off hours for system failures.
* Collaboratively works with QA team to ensure timely delivery of high-quality products.
* Collaboratively works with customer support team to resolve or diagnose defects.
