---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-20
title: Scala Developer
company: |
  Adstream
location: London, UK
level: Intermediate, Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  We have an exciting opportunity for you to join one of the world's leading suppliers of Linear and Digital Advertising Assets.  We are looking for motivated & results driven Scala Developers to join our highly skilled Agile teams, to power the feature-set of our enterprise system - ‘The Adstream Platform’. With a heavy focus on Performance, Scalability and Availability, the core Scala layer drives virtually every aspect of the product’s roadmap.
admin: rose.gabriel@adstream.com
application_url: https://adstream.bamboohr.com/jobs/view.php?id=127
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
citizenship: |
  EU Citizen / ILR only
---

<!-- break -->

We have an exciting opportunity for you to join one of the world's leading suppliers of Linear and Digital Advertising Assets. With over 42 offices serving 5000 business clients in 115 countries, the company is established, in many regions of the world, as the de facto service for global household brands. With a clear strategy in place, the company aims to be the world's number one solution in its sector.

Located in the trendy East London Tech City, you will become part of a diverse and rapidly expanding team of talented developers and other software delivery specialists.

We are looking for motivated & results driven developers to join our highly skilled Agile teams, to power the feature-set of our enterprise system - ‘The Adstream Platform’. With a heavy focus on Performance, Scalability and Availability, the core Scala layer drives virtually every aspect of the product’s roadmap.

The Adstream Platform is a highly customisable, Digital Asset Management web application, which to many of the world’s biggest brands, is integral to their global Advertising & Marketing strategy.

We are technology driven, with a team working & joint responsibility philosophy. As such, you should have a genuine desire to cooperate and build robust, test driven software using industry standard processes.

You will strive to achieve maximum success within your team, and work together and improve as a unit.

In return, we will provide you with a competitive salary, in a friendly, sociable atmosphere. We will grant you opportunities for training and conferences, allowing you to grow your skill-set and make you a better-rounded developer. We recognise good talent and know how to harness it.

This is a magnificent opportunity to join a market leader, during an exciting period of its growth.

### Essential Skills

Technical

- Strong commercial development experience in Scala/Java ecosystem
- Excellent knowledge of the Scala language and programming paradigms
- Significant experience of MongoDB and ElasticSearch
- Implementing message based architectures using JMS (ActiveMQ)
- An understanding if HTTP frameworks, such as Play and Spray
- Excellent knowledge of HTTP REST Protocols with JSON
- Full stack debugging

Process

- Experience working in an Agile (Scrum preferred) environment, actively participating in standard ceremonies
- Should believe in a team centric approach
- Ability to develop and own application features, individual tasks in order to meet milestones and deadlines
- Provide accurate timeframe estimates
- Ability to interact with technical and non-technical people
- Continuous delivery approach
- Initiative to drive change in development practices through team work, code reviews, etc.
- Knowledge of code repositories and build servers

Persona

- Must be a confident communicator with good written and oral communication
- Ability to build credible good relationships with managers, team members and internal and external stakeholders
- A “real” developer interested in new tech, runs with it, and identifies benefits applicable to the projects they are working on
- Interest in open source solutions, and willing to contribute back to community
- Sociable, willing to get involved and help others

## Desirable skills

Technical/Process

- Working knowledge Javascript frameworks (NodeJS, Angular.js)
- OrientDB
- Camel
- Docker
- GitLab
- Linux
- Jenkins
- Jira
- An arsenal of experience and knowledge of using other tools and languages correctly

Other

- The expectation is that you can use the full Microsoft Office suite as well as Internet, Skype etc.
- Maintain personal and professional development to meet the changing demands of the job
- Participate in appropriate training activities and encourage staff in their development and training
- Undertake such other duties, training and/or hours of work as may be reasonably required and which are consistent with the level of responsibility of this job
