---
layout: job
title: Senior Scala Developer
company: JP Morgan
location:  New York, NY
level: Junior, Intermediate, Senior
junior: true
remote: no
summary: |
  Scala developer required at JP Morgan for full-stack development on a new data platform for processing, storing and visualizing vast amounts of mission-critical risk data. We will be using Scala with Spark, Akka, Play and cats to deliver a scalable, resilient platform with React/D3 on the front end. This is a great opportunity to design and build a large system from scratch.
admin: vishakh@gmail.com
application_url: https://jpmchase.taleo.net/careersection/jobdetail.ftl?job=160046297&lang=en
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
---

<!-- break -->

JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE: JPM) is a leading global financial services firm with assets of $2 trillion and operations in more than 60 countries. The firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers, small business and commercial banking, financial transaction processing, asset management, and private equity.

### The Group

Risk Central is a firm-wide effort to bring in best in class Big Data technologies to store, aggregate and report risk and PNL data. Using Big Data technologies like Hadoop, Kafka and Spark, the Risk Central team will build a resilient high-capacity platform supporting the firm’s business and regulatory agenda. On a typical day, vast amounts of data will stream into the system from both end of day batches and real-time calculators. Processing engines will link the incoming data streams to derive business relevant data views. Modern front ends will be built for desktop and mobile platforms to service the needs of heterogeneous clients across the Investment Bank and Risk & Finance.

### The Role

The Scala developer role requires full-stack development, with the ideal candidate involved in all aspects of the Risk Central build out. This includes writing internal and external APIs, writing code that persists and aggregates data and building highly scalable, mission-critical components servicing users across the globe. Candidates will be able to handle the full pipeline of the system, from receiving data from upstream systems to reporting results to downstream clients. In order to accomplish this, the developer will write highly concurrent, fault-tolerant modules in a functional paradigm based on the actor model.


### Qualifications

  - Experience with Scala in a production setting.
  - Ability to code in a functional style.
  - Familiarity with Akka, Play and Cats are pluses.
  - Familiarity with Spark is a plus.
  - General knowledge of financial products and risk calculation helpful but not required.