---
layout: job
title: Scala Developer, Capital Markets
company: |
  RMS
location: London
level: Intermediate
remote: No
summary: |
  Scala Developer within our Miu development team (Capital Markets Group).  Miu is a portfolio management platform developed for assessing risk associated with insurance-linked securities such as catastrophe bonds, industry loss warranties, excess mortality bonds, swaps or reinsurance contracts.  The original Miu application is developed as a desktop application and we are re-engineering it as a cloud application utilizing elastic compute resource and big data analytics.   

admin: oliver.luscombe@rms.com
application_url: https://app.jobvite.com/j?cj=oaFB3fwd&s=Underscore(UK)
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.

---

<!-- break -->

### The Department   

RMS Capital Markets specialises in helping clients manage the transfer of catastrophe risk to the capital markets. Through a combination of consulting services, portfolio management products, and indices for trading, we work closely with all sectors of the catastrophe risk market to help understand the risks and returns associated with insurance linked securities, collateralised reinsurance, and all sorts of convergence contracts. 

We are hiring a Scala Developer to join our Miu development team as part of the Capital Markets Group.  Miu is a portfolio management platform developed for the purpose of assessing risk associated with insurance-linked securities such as catastrophe bonds, industry loss warranties, excess mortality bonds, swaps or reinsurance contracts. It is used by investors around the world to apply sophisticated portfolio management practices within this asset class. The original Miu application is developed as a desktop application and we are re-engineering it as a cloud application utilizing elastic compute resource and big data analytics.   

### Objective of the Scala Developer

This position will entail working with the development team to produce a cloud solution to the legacy desktop software. It will require building micro-services and replacing the current analysis engine with big data technology.

### Key Accountabilities & Deliverables

- Collaborate with team members to develop application infrastructure components, following coding, documentation and design standards;
- Understand how existing code works and functions;
- Participate in requirements analysis to be able to effectively construct technical solution;
- Testing, benchmarking and documenting code, new components and algorithms;
- Contribute as a member of a skilled and creative product development team designing, developing and delivering the next generation of Enterprise Risk Management Applications;
- Embark on an intellectually challenging and rewarding product development journey and work with top-tier software professionals on a variety of projects that explores the frontiers of modern technology;
- Participate in all aspects of an iterative software development process including design, hands -on development, testing, debugging, maintenance and supporting our client facing colleagues required. 

### Essential Requirements

- Minimum 2.1 BS/MS Degree in Computer Science or related engineering or mathematical field;
- Strong understanding of algorithms, data structures and functional programming concepts.
- Highly Proficient in Scala;
- TDD, DDD, REST
- GitHub, AWS
- SBT, Play, Akka-http, Akka Streams, Slick, Cats/Scalaz, MySQL/Postgres;
- Excellent communication skills and proven ability to convey complex ideas to others in a concise and clear manner. 

### Desirable 

- Strong mathematical skills in algorithmic computations, statistics and probability;
- NoSQL, Spark;
- Good understanding of distributed or cloud computing.

### RMS

Did you know there’s a 5% chance that a hurricane will cause $60 billion of insured losses next year? And there’s a 1% chance that an earthquake will cause $50 billion of insured loss in the next 12 months? We do. At RMS, we build the simulation models that allow insurers and investors to understand portfolio risks due to catastrophes: natural catastrophes (hurricane, earthquake, flood), terrorism, pandemic, and changes in life expectancy.

We are one of the most exciting and technologically sophisticated firms you’ve ‘never’ heard of, unless you’re one of our hundreds of clients in the (re)insurance, banking or hedge fund sector. We lead an industry we helped pioneer and ultimately our work makes a true impact on the world at large. How we understand and manage risk affects everybody and our passion is nothing less than creating a more resilient world through a better understanding of catastrophic events.

We celebrated our 25th anniversary in 2014 and are now evolving our vision by delivering our cutting edge, cloud-based, risk management platform RMS(one).  RMS(one) will create a holistic and integrated view of risk across the enterprise with one platform for all models, all points of view and all data.
