---
layout: job
title: Software Engineer, Software Automation
company: Bastille
location: San Francisco 
level: Junior, Intermediate, and Senior
remote: no
summary: |
  We have an open position for an engineer who wants to work with Scala, Spark, and Kafka. This position includes writing data infrastructure, analytics, and data mining. 
admin: trent@bastille.io
application_url: https://jobs.lever.co/bastille/f899b14c-5167-458f-ba10-0b4817ac05a0
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.
---

<!-- break -->

Bastille is a security company revolutionizing the way that Enterprises assess and mitigate threats associated with the proliferation of the Internet of Things. We are an engineering focused company and we make awesome products. We are driven by innovation, design, teamwork, and transparency. Our corporate culture is our most prized asset and valuable currency in attracting and retaining top engineering talent. If you are driven by excellence, are motivated by solving hard problems, and want to work with some of the smartest minds in the industry, then we want to talk to you!

We have offices in San Francisco, Santa Cruz, and Atlanta.

As a Data and Analytics Engineer, you will be responsible for the processing engine that powers the first IoT security analytics platform. You will work hand in hand with data scientists, radio engineers, and security researchers to improve our current analytic capability. You will be building new ways to process and produce valuable insights from our data. This is a full-time, on-site position in San Francisco.

## Responsibilities

- Build systems to collect, process, and serve data from our IoT sensors
- Develop new analytics around IoT visibility and security
- Build infrastructure to support Data Scientists and Ad-hoc analytics

## Requirements

- Understand operationalizing and working with data
- Knowledge of modern data architectures and tradeoffs
- At least 3-5 years building data systems
- Familiarity with Scala (or a willingness to learn)
- Love gluing things together in Python
- Spark, Kafka, and Postgres knowledge is helpful
- Strong Linux and networking experience
- Security knowledge a plus

## Benefits

- Engineering First Culture
- Small team, Large Responsibility (Code Ownership)
- Stock Options
- 401k
- Unlimited Vacation
- Health Care
- Commute Reimbursement Plan
- Uber Credits
- Offsite Events
- Hack Weeks
- Flexible Hours
- Catered Meals
- Conference / Travel Budget
- Inter-office Travel Encouraged

