---
layout: job
title: Scala Backend Engineer (m/f)
company: |
  Scala Backend Engineer (m/f)
location: Berlin, Germany
level: Intermediate, Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  EyeEm is the world's premier photography community and platform. It's a place for photographers of all abilities to share, interact, and learn more about taking pictures on any device. Thanks to a unique combination of advanced search technology, Market and Missions, EyeEm photographers have a chance to showcase their original work and license their photography to be seen by a global audience.
admin: nesrin@eyeem.com
application_url: https://eyeem.workable.com/jobs/244144
instructions: |
  Apply online. Click "Apply Now" below to get started.

---

<!-- break -->

As a Backend Engineer (f/m) at EyeEm, you are a major part of the engine that builds the foundation of our company. With a current stock of 70 million images and 18 million users, it is crucial that we factor scalability and efficiency into all of our decisions for future growth. You would be an instrumental part of this.

You will be responsible for building and running a wide variety of features and services. You will be a fundamental part in our ongoing efforts of moving towards microservices from a monolithic architecture. We strive for a DevOps approach: you will be operating your own services, taking complete ownership of configuration management, continuous integration, monitoring and operation of services that are built on top of Scala, Java, Python and PHP stacks.

You will be a part of the Core Engineering team: a diverse team of backend, full-stack, data, search and infrastructure engineers.

Key responsibilities include:
+ Design and build new features for our platform from scratch.
+ Maintain and optimize existing features and services for performance and stability.
+ Continuously improve a sustainable, automated infrastructure for our services (We use Chef and are happy to help you learn it).
+ Find and resolve issues with the platform in close communication with our product and support teams.
+ Work together with different people from the company of varying technical level such as product managers and stakeholders.
+ Work with Computer Vision researchers to build amazing products on top of deep learning models.
+ Participate in rotating on-call shifts.

REQUIREMENTS
+ You have a passion for writing clean code, with an appetite for tackling complex architectural challenges.
+ You are self-driven and a fast learner; eager to work with new technologies.
+ You are a team player, with the ability to motivate the team to improve each day.
+ You see writing tests for your code as standard operating procedure.
+ You believe in deploying and maintaining the services you build.
+ You acknowledge the importance of good design and architecture documentation.

TECHNICAL MUST-HAVES
+ 3+ years experience as a developer.
+ Fluency in Scala and knowledge of Java.
+ Solid software engineering & design pattern knowledge.

TECHNICAL BONUSES
+ Experience with Chef and/or other automation tools.
+ Experience with message brokers like RabbitMQ & Kafka.
+ Experience with high traffic environments & scaling distributed systems.

BENEFITS
+ Be part of an international team of ambitious, creative team members who value code and photography as much as they value music and video games.
+ Work and create products that reach, encourage and inspire millions of people, from pros to new talents.
+ The opportunity to work with cutting-edge technology frameworks like Deep Learning, Computer Vision, and more.
+ A culture focussed on continual learning: in-house masterclasses, weekly EyeEm University workshops on a wide range of topics led by colleagues, and free German lessons.