---
layout: job
title: Software Engineer
company: |
  Quantexa
location: London, UK
level: Junior, Intermediate
remote: No
summary: |
  Quantexa is a rapidly growing start-up creating products to fight fraud and financial crime within Financial Services and Government. We work with some of the richest datasets from the worlds largest institutions. We are looking for data scientists and software engineers comfortable with full stack development, from server side and batch processing to web development. Our products are primarily developed in Scala and work with a wide range of technologies such as Spark, Elasticsearch, and Akka.
admin: ianlees@quantexa.com
email: recruit@quantexa.com
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
junior: true
citizenship: |
  Right to work in the UK
---

<!-- break -->

## Quantexa

Quantexa was incorporated in March 2016, we recently hired our fifteenth employee and are on track to double again by the end of our first year. Our team includes experts with many years of experience in consultancy, data analytics, software development and fraud and financial crime prevention.

We develop and implement solutions that use large volumes of data and advanced analytical techniques to detect and alert on high risk activity, and provide clear interfaces to allow our clients to evaluate and act upon these alerts. We utilise a combination of business consultancy, data science and computer science skills to cover the full lifecycle of implementing new systems in large organisations.

## The role

Quantexa are looking for experienced engineers of all levels to join the research and development team of our rapidly growing company. We are looking to expand the team to grow out product development capabilities.

You will be working on our new and innovative products which have a range of applications across the Fraud and Financial crime market. We are looking for engineers who are comfortable to design and implement solutions to complex problems across the whole software stack; from the server-side and batch processing components to the front-end web development.

You will be responsible for designing, implementing and delivering high performing solutions to complex problems. You will also be required to work with the analytics and implementation teams as well as pre-sales to help refine and understand the requirements for the products.

Our office is located near London Bridge.

## About you

You should have the following:

* Commercial development experience in at least one of the following and a knowledge of the others:
    * Scala or Java (but have some experience with Scala as this is our primary development language)
    * Web development experience with HTML/JavaScript/CSS
    * Big data technologies and applications such as Spark and Hadoop
* Enthusiasm to learn and develop emerging technologies and techniques
* A passion for delivering high quality software
* Strong academic qualifications, high quality degree (2:1 or above) or equivalent

Desirable skills

* Experience with the following technologies and frameworks: Spring, Akka, Spark, Elasticsearch, AngularJS, Foundation, Docker, Gradle, Gulp or Bower
* Experience working with scalable, resilient distributed architectures
* Experience using Amazon Web Services
* Prior experience in Fraud and Financial Crime
* Prior experience in data science methods and techniques

We’re looking for high performing individuals, and offer competitive base salary commensurate with experience plus bonus, generous benefits and an EMI option scheme for equity.
