---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Senior Scala Developer 
company: |
  Flynt 
location: Zug, Switzerland 
level: Intermediate, Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  FLYNT is seeking an experienced Scala Developer to work on a greenfield Scala / Akka based application. 
  FLYNT reinvents platforms, services and experiences that put clients in control of their wealth. We see wealth as a means to follow life’s dreams, ambitions and aspirations. Wealth is a gateway to opportunity. Our mission is to transform how our clients realise these opportunities – in the most fluid, dynamic and rewarding way possible.
admin: matt.gilberthorpe@flynt.io
email: matt.gilberthorpe@flynt.io
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.

---

<!-- break -->

### About Us
 
FLYNT reinvents platforms, services and experiences that put clients in control of their wealth. We see wealth as a means to follow life’s dreams, ambitions and aspirations. Wealth is a gateway to opportunity. Our mission is to transform how our clients realise these opportunities – in the most fluid, dynamic and rewarding way possible.
 
### Role Summary 

FLYNT is seeking a seasoned Scala Developer. As the ideal candidate, you are a Sr. Developer who is passionate about state of the art applications for global products that are intuitive and delightful. You constantly seek to understand customers' needs and translate those needs into fascinating software. You have a keen eye for detail and an obsession for your craft. Collaboration is in your DNA, but you aren’t afraid to prioritize, make decisions and communicate with authority.
 
If you have a desire to stretch yourself, to support the delivery of great products and features then FLYNT is the perfect place for you! We're passionate about making an impact on the world and excited to be part of a new generation of brands revolutionising (and disrupting!) the 21st century. 
 
### Responsibilities
 
- Build a brand new product working on a large greenfield project with the development team
- Have a genuine passion about Scala/Akka and use your skills in a business driven enterprise
- Have a heavy focus on scaleability and 24/7 availability
- Work in a highly Agile environment, implementing Continuous Integration and Deployment as well as Test Driven Development
 
### Qualifications
 
- Sound knowledge and professional experience with Scala/Akka
- Experience of asynchronous patterns and multi-threaded programming
- Good knowledge of designing RESTful APIs
- Knowledge of industry practices such as TDD, Continuous Integration, Design Patterns
- Agile experience and passion for working in an Agile environment.
- University degree in Information Technology or Computer Science or a similar working experience
 
### Benefits
 
- Possibility to play a leading role in building state of the art applications and services
- Shaping modern financial applications with your experience
- Working with latest technologies in diverse areas
- The best team in town with global experience across many areas
- Regular meetups, tech-talks, workshops and expert chats give you the chance to develop and improve on many levels
 
### Your next step
 
For more detailed information on the Scala Developer Position please contact Matt Gilberthorpe (Talent Acquisition Manager) using the Apply Now button.
