---
layout: job
expire: 2016-11-01
title: Scala Engineer
company: |
  Acorns
location: Newport Beach, CA, USA
level: Junior, Intermediate, Senior
remote: No
summary: |
  Working on a mix of operational web services (using Finagle) and big data pipelines and analysis (using Spark and Spark Streaming). We're looking for solid engineers who are passionate about Scala. Applicants at any level will be considered - we're hoping to find some Senior-level engineers, but we're also willing to mentor the right Mid- and Junior-level engineers.
admin: jeremy.smith@acorns.com
email: scalajobs@acorns.com
instructions: |
  Use the button below to send us an email including your CV, the position you're applying for, and anything else you might want to say.
junior: true
citizenship: |
  US Citizens; visa sponsorship available
---

<!-- break -->

Acorns is actively seeking a highly-motivated, detail-oriented, and driven Software Engineer. As part of the Data Engineering team, you'll use Scala to contribute to products and services on the cutting edge of FinTech. This is a full-time, direct hire position, working regular hours, located in Irvine, CA.

### Job Description

* Architect, design, and code new features and enhancements of a complex financial platform
* Build high-performance operational services with Finagle
* Implement cutting-edge Big Data intelligence pipelines with Spark
* Mentor junior engineers
* Participate in setting standards and best practices for a growing engineering organization

### Job Requirements

* 3+ years of Java or Scala experience
* 5+ years of software engineering experience in an internet facing solution
* You have worked on and maintained a large project for a significant amount of time
* Experience with Test Driven Development and evangelistic about testing
* Understanding basic algorithms and data structures
* Experience building API services
* Object oriented fundamentals (OOA, OOP, OOD)

### Bonus

* Familiarity with functional programming languages and concepts
* Financial Institution/FinTech experience
* Contribution to Open Source project(s)
* Experience with Finagle and/or `scala.concurrent`
* Advanced understanding of SQL and database design concepts

### Perks

* Medical, dental and vision insurance
* Daily breakfast, weekly team lunches and an endless supply of snacks
* Stumptown cold brew coffee for the fearless
* Classy office space in Newport Beach
* Brand new MacBook Pro
* Daily meditation break
* Corporate gym access
* Smart, passionate coworkers in a collaborative environment

### About Acorns

Acorns is the leading micro-investing app in the U.S. It allows users to round up their daily purchases and automatically Invest the Change® into a low-cost, diversified portfolio of exchange-traded funds offered by some of the world's top asset managers (including Vanguard and BlackRock). Founded in Newport Beach, Calif., by father and son team Walter and Jeff Cruttenden, Acorns provides a simple entry-point using the Acorns app on iPhone or Android. Customers accumulate fractional shares in one of five portfolios constructed by world-renowned Nobel Laureate economist Dr. Harry Markowitz. Acorns' smart portfolio algorithms automatically work in the background of life, helping users build wealth naturally, pennies at a time. From Acorns mighty oaks do grow.

### Mission

With benevolence and courage, we look after the financial best interests of the up-and-coming; beginning with the empowering step of micro-investing.

### Values

1. Lead with heart
2. Make bold decisions 
3. Always build trust
4. Never stop growing 
5. Advance our society


